Sheri from Scarborough, Ontario Canada	01/11/2007	YEA	I TRIED A FEW OF YOUR REMEDIES FOR SORE THROAT. I TRIED THE REMEDY OF CAYENNE WITH WATER, GARGLING IT EVERY 15 MINUTES. HOWEVER IT WAS TOO HOT FOR ME TO CONTINUE PAST THE FIRST TRY. THEN I DECIDED TO TRY THE REMEDY OF WATER WITH ACV... AND IT WORKED WONDERS, MY SORE THROAT VANISHED WITHIN A FEW DAYS. I THEN RECOMMENDED IT TO MY FAMILY WHEN THEY CAME DOWN WITH A BAD SORE THROAT THAT HAD LASTED FOR MORE THEN A WEEK. THEY TRIED IT ALSO AND TO THEIR AMAZEMENT, IT WORKED IN A FEW DAYS. THANKS SO MUCH FOR THIS REMEDY. I ALSO HAVE HEARD ACV IS GOOD FOR WEIGHT LOSS, I INTEND TO TRY THIS IN THE FUTURE FOR THIS REASON.
Laurie from Corona, CA	12/31/2006	YEA	I got sick Christmas Day and Could not talk. My throat was on fire it felt like it was closing up and I couldn't hardly swallow. I used the cayenne pepper remedy and it was still real bad. I got thirsty after all that hot pepper gargling so I drank some ice cold water which I thought was going to make it worse. Almost immediately my sore throat went away and it never returned. My son 15 yrs old got sick with a sore throat the next day and couldn't hardly swallow. I told him to try the cold water and his throat stopped hurting also, but it started hurting again hours later so we're going to repeat the water and gargle with cayenne pepper and APV remedy. This is much cheaper that all the medication I use to buy every time one of my 4 kids gets sick. I love this site, I hope you stay around forever! Laurie
Natasha from New Zealand	12/23/2006	YEA	Cayenne & apple cider vinegar in hot water with a dash of honey relieved the pain of my sore throat almost instantly. Will keep it up for the rest of the day and hopefully it will not come back.
Tina from Helena, AL	12/15/2006	YEA	Hi There. I ran across this website the other night as I was searching the internet in search of a natural approach to cure a sore throat that was so advanced that my tonsils were red and looked blistery and I could hardly swallow. It was very painful. I ran across the recommendation for the Cayenne pepper gargle but then saw that if I added ACV to this that I could drink it and it would cure my sinuses also which I have had a problem with for years and had a discharge of mucous every morning that was almost a reddish-brown color and tons of pressure in my head and had been taken Advil cold and sinus for it. I began drinking it yesterday morning and still did the Cayenne pepper and water gargle last night. My throat is already cleared up and I believe my sinuses are beginning but I am not sure what is happening with my sinuses. It seems to me like I am coughing up alot of stuff that has probably been there for while and I noticed that my mucous is now a light yellow color. My nose is also stuffy and I feel like I am literally coughing up stuff out of my chest that I didn't even know was there (lol). I am still drinking this little mixture today and will continue to as I believe that what is happening is that I am healing and that all of this that has been there is beginning to come out and I can tell because although my mucous is not clear yet and is very light yellowish, it is not brown/reddish which says something (lol). Despite all of this (The stuffy nose and coughing up mucous) I seem to feel great with a very high energy level and no pressure in the head causing it to ache. So I will let you know the final result and am very grateful for this remedy and this wonderful website and will be consulting it regularly for my health concerns and my clients.
Natalie from Carmel, IN	08/14/2006	YEA	I have a cold that started two days ago and was beginning to really suffer from sore throat and loss of voice. I made a tea of acv and cayenne pepper (non-organic grocery store kind) and sipped two mugs w/in 20 minutes last evening. By the time I went to bed, my throat no longer hurt and this morning I am able to speak more clearly. I know from experience that my colds last quite a long time and this wonderful tea has reduced my sick time. In fact, I didn't get to the "feel worse before you feel better" part! I will continue sipping throughout the day for good measure. Thanks for the great, healthy help!
Ani from Ontario, Canada	07/06/2006	YEA	Well i'd been struggling with some form of tonsillitis for over a month. Viral (not strep since two swab tests came back negative, though only AFTER i had already taken an entire bottle of Penicillin!). It became so bad this week that i could hardly swallow. I'd never seen my tonsils so swollen, they were covered in white stuff and the doctor pointed out they were secreting puss - eeeuu! Well I made a tea using hot water, a couple spoons of apple cider vinegar and about 1/3 - 1/2 tspn of cayenne pepper. All symptoms are COMPLETELY gone after only 2 days of drinking this once or twice a day. REMARKABLE! I will drink this in a more diluted form on a daily basis as it gave me energy and makes me feel great in general
Ed from Ocoee, fl	06/15/2006	YEA	First time I have ever been to the Earth Clinic site, and as I had a terrible sore throat and the beginnings of the Flu, I thought I'd try anything. I tried gargling with ACV and Cayenne it took care of it immediately, could not believe anything would work that fast. The next day I woke up with the Flu. I tried the ACV drink and without taking anything else, the Flu was gone in two days. Truly amazing! I have told everyone about the site and my cure. Most impressive - Thanks
Diane from PA	05/08/2006	YEA	I developed swollen lymph nodes inside my throat - right one was so swollen I could feel it through the outside of my neck and this all developed in 2 days. My doctor is on vacation and I remember hearing something about vinegar so I looked it up and wound up mixing straight apple cider vinegar (store brand) and McCormick Cayenne Pepper powder in a glass and gargled 3 times. The pain was significantly reduced for me and now I am having a hot cup of Irish Breakfast Tea with honey and lemon juice. I plan to keep going with the cayenne and vinegar.
Steve	05/04/2006	YEA	This hit me last Sunday, as I was exhausted, for no reason. Then I woke up Mon. with a slight sore throat, that got worse later in the day. Tues. it hit me like a freight train. I had a horrible sore throat that went all through my neck up to my ear. There wasn't a spot on me that didn't hurt to the touch. Every joint ached. My teeth even hurt. I started taking my wife's ACV on Tues.. Yesterday I put in a little red pepper. Last night I woke up in a cold, thick sweat. Today I feel 100% better with only a mild sore throat and no aches. I am still very weak though, I don't what this was, but I'm sure it was some type of flu. The guys at work gave me this and they went to the Dr. so I'll ask them. Thanks for the tips!!!
Kristin from Dallas, TX	04/02/2006	NAY	Sorry guys I tried the ACV and the Cayenne Pepper mixed together and diluted down with some water and had no success as of yet. Then, out of desperation, I did a straight shot of the AVC and rinsed with water, still no results. I'll keep trying and see how the day goes!
"This is a fantastic combo. My throat felt immediately better and I am now highly energized. Still spitting out mucous 10 minutes after finishing the drink. I had no idea there was so much mucous in my throat (couldn't feel it). Yikes. I will continue to drink this as a daily health tonic, I think."	Julia from Santa Ana	YEA	This is a fantastic combo. My throat felt immediately better and I am now highly energized. Still spitting out mucous 10 minutes after finishing the drink. I had no idea there was so much mucous in my throat (couldn't feel it). Yikes. I will continue to drink this as a daily health tonic, I think.
Lynn from Waterville, Maine	08/15/2007	YEA	I learned about raspberry tea and started using a cup of warm raspberry tea with 1/2tsp of apple cider vinegar to gargle with and spit back out. I freaked when I saw the gunk it was nasty. If caught in time it gives a nice relief of a sore throat. From time to time I just gargle to keep from getting a build up of gunk. Especially during allergy seasons. I hope this helps as it did for me.
Paul from Melbourne, Australia	07/11/2009	YEA	Yes the cayenne pepper works wonders. so does baking soda because of its alkalinity. (bacteria love an acidic environment) But I highly recommend putting a roll of toilet paper in the freezer for when you need it, and boy will you need it. I felt like i was giving birth to a marine distress flare on the toilet. Also something that is of "enormous" help. WARMTH. keep the neck area warm as possible with a large towel. and sleep with it on all night. you'll be amazed at what a difference it makes. White blood cells in your saliva love love loves warmth, and they are more active in a warm environment. SO WHAT WORKS FOR ME. First gargle apple cider to quickly remove the flem to expose the bacteria or virus, then hit it with baking soda. the baking soda makes the infected area alkaline. then hit it with the cayenne pepper. then wrap up the neck area with a towel and sleep with it on. If that doesn't work, I'll be dammed !
Jane from Grove City, OH, USA	10/14/2008	YEA	Listerine. It cures your throat sores immediately, doesn't taste gross, and it makes your breath smell better. Use the amount you usually do for mouthwash rinsing, or if you haven't used it before use about one tablespoon. Gargle it as far back as you can without swallowing it. It really takes away the burn!
Betty from Broken Arrow, Ok	11/23/2012	YEA	Had bad sore throat for several days and got low grade fever last night. Tried gargling with listerine, hydrogen peroxide... Neither worked. Have always loved EC site so decided to see what others used. Last night I made a mixture of 3T of ACV, 1T honey, and 1/4 cup water. Didn't have cayenne on hand. I gargled 3-4 times with mixture and then sipped the little that was left. It took a couple of hours, but the sore throat and fever left me. I slept well and am feeling good this morning. PTL!
My2cents from Rock Hill, Sc, USA	11/18/2012	NAY	Talk about regrets! I am an ACV fanatic. I believe whole heartedly in the power of ACV. Especially the unfiltered, unpasteurized ACV with "the mother". BUT in this case, I regret it. I started out with a very sore throat. I was unable to swallow food, and swallowing even liquids was uncomfortable, but not unbearable. I mixed the vinegar and honey. Gargled, swallowed. I noticed that WHILE I was gargling I felt great. My throat did not hurt at all. And for maybe ten seconds afterward. THEN, I noticed that gradually, my throat got worse and worse. It now hurts so bad to swallow that I try just spitting unless I am drinking something. I say proceed with caution.
Alex from Mechanicsville, Va	10/03/2012	BETTER BUT NOT CURED	I rinsed with apple cider vinegar (that's it. Didn't have the honey as recommended) and wow that did a job on my throat. It feels 80% better after one treatment. Thanks for the post. I was about to try salt water gargling for the umpteenth time even though it never seemed to work before.
Annie from New York, Ny	09/03/2012	BETTER BUT NOT CURED	A few months ago, I had a wisdom tooth coming out, which also came with a sore throat. I drank some Apple Cider Vinegar mixed with raw honey and it helped one side of my throat feel better which is better than nothing. It was a quick effect. The drink also helped my sister with a sore throat as well; didn't cure it but probably might have if she had more than a cup.
Angle from Lawrenceville, Ga	12/17/2011	YEA	I use 2 tbsp. Apple cider vinegar, 2 tbsp. Honey, lemon juice and a little hot water to dilute. It's still potent but more bearable. The first time I used it years ago, my throat was completely swollen and "closed" up like a strep infection. I used it 3-4 times a day and knocked it out. I only use a little water so that I'm done quicker :) then drink water after to wash it down.
Jenny from Perth, Western Australia	11/25/2011	BETTER BUT NOT CURED	A very bad sore throat caught me out the other night and now I can't seem to ditch it. I've tried drinking warm water with ACV and honey (even gargling with it) 3-4 times per day and while it feels a little better, it's still very much there.
Daisy from Portland, Dorset, England	08/31/2011	YEA	i have a sore throat and think your cure is actually working well. It still aches and hurts but im feeling better by far.
Meg from Montreal, Quebec	07/04/2011	YEA	I put 1 tablespoon of ACV in about 8oz of peppermint tea flavoured water, and after the first gargle, my sore throat started to feel better instantly! I can swallow now without my throat feeling raw.
Luann from Grand Haven, Mi	05/24/2011	YEA	I've used apple cider vinegar for years on sore throats. A tablespoon full in a half glass of water if you can handle it works for me as a gargle. The one time I didn't use it on a sore throat I ended up with Strep.
Alicia  from Chapel Hill, Nc, Usa	02/28/2011	YEA	Yea - read the suggestions last night after 3 days of a sore throat that wouldn't quit. Did the 3 TBS of ACV and 8 oz of hot water. I'm on a diet so only did 1 TBS of honey. I sipped and gargled it as slowly as I could although I did feel pretty lousy after (no sugar no carb diet probably didn't help w/ACV in my stomach). BUT, I woke up this AM feeling a little better and now 24 hours later my sore throat is almost completely gone. I'm going to try ACV for seasonal allergies, which are starting here, just will make sure to have something more on my stomach. Thanks Earth Clinic - now off to find cures for wrinkles and gray hair :-).
Victoria from New York City, Usa	02/07/2011	NAY	I tried this. First I did 2 tblsp of this in a glass of water and drank it. That didnt work. Then I mixed the ACV in a mug of tea. That didnt work. Finally I just took the ACV straight to the head. This didnt work either. So now I have a disgusting taste in my mouth and still a sore throat. :/
Rene from Greatna, Usa	10/02/2010	YEA	I just came across this site for sore throat and tried Apple Cider Vinegar with honey and warm water and believe me it worked instantly.
West from Dunn, Nc	01/10/2010	YEA	When ever I start feeling a sore throat coming on I take a teaspoon of ACV and again in about 30 minutes. Soon after my symtoms are gone. Also if you mix a teaspoon of ACV with a teaspoon of honey in a cup of tea, heat and drink, it will not only give you more energy but also help your sore throat feel much better.
Kyrt from Los Angeles, Ca	11/29/2009	YEA	ACV is awesome. im on day two of a sore throat. My voice sounded like a cartoon character. Found this site, hit the ACV, and no joke, it's only been 10 minutes, but, my voice is back to normal. Guess what i'm drinking all nite :)
Feeling Better Already from Northland, New Zealand	11/13/2009	YEA	I have to say that ACV diluted with warm water worked for me. The usual story, woke with an awful sore throat & couldn't swallow without feeling like I had sandpaper at the back of my throat. I remembered someone else mentioning ages ago that ACV helps. I hunted out a bottle that's probably been in the pantry since the beginning of time and I tried it. And you know what...? It works! First dose I knocked back 'straight'! (ugh..!) Wow - needed a warm water chaser then. Am now sipping it with diluted warm water & will continue throughout the day. Sore throat has not completely gone as yet, but definitely feeling so much better. I can actually swallow without cringing. It almost seems to have an anaesthetic effect too. I smell like a pickled onion, but more importantly, I can breathe & swallow & actually function almost normally. Great stuff I say! No more pharmacies & docs for me when I get a sore throat. Cheers!
Pmstar from San Diego, Ca	08/06/2009	YEA	When a sore throat is coming on take a few zinc tablets right away then I agree on the ACV mixed with honey. It works on contact. If you're at work or out, almost any full service restaurant can provide it for you so the sore throat doesn't take a solid hold before you get home. Apple Cider Vinegar can be difficult to stomach when you are ill so add some ginger to help your stomach accept it. When I'm well, I drink a shot of ACV straight each day and I eat blueberries to quickly remove the taste from my mouth. Its a morning ritual.
Joe C from Bear Creek , NC	07/22/2009	YEA	I just tried a 3tsp acv, 3tsp honey with about 4 oz of water and it worked with the first sip. I decided on the 4 oz of water from some previous posts where people didn't experience immediate relief and it was suggested they not dillute as much. Any how, I sipped the stuff with a spoon and for the first time this week I have been able to swallow without tears. I have been taking amoxicillin for not quite two days, as I am lucky enough to have developed strep throat for the first time in over ten years during my summer vacation, but nothing I have tried would get rid of the burn in my throat. I wish I had found this site a few days ago and had a much better vacation!!
Donna from Palm Beach, Fl	07/14/2009	YEA	Wow - my sore throat was slowly getting worse during the day despite lots of tea and water. It got so bad my ears were starting to burn and I could feel a distinct lump on my throat on the side where it hurt most. I was miserable and then found this site. I love ACV, using it as a salad dressing often - so I eagerly tried it and was amazed. I sipped about 4 ounces of the 9 ounces, slowly with a spoon and within a half hour I have had incredible relief. Not cured, but I can swallow without tears now. Will continue throughout the evening and hope it will go away before a big meeting tomorrow. thanks everyone for their posts!
Kelly from Perth, Australia	07/06/2009	YEA	I used Apple Cider Vinegar straight and my sore throat faded immediately. When you swallow, tilt your head back and coat as much of your throat as possible. Although the taste is not nice, the results are really good, and really eased my throat as well as unblocked my nose. Leave it to sit for 30 minutes at least so it can do it's job, just bear the taste if you can.
Circle of Fate from Chicago, IL	06/16/2009	YEA	I'm in a band and will be doing a very big show in two weeks. I don't want to get the other band memebers sick during practice and was woken up in the middle of the night with a terrible sore throat. It was really burning! I tried the acv and honey with hot water and it already feels much better than it did. I'm going to keep drinking this and see if I can get myself better by tomorrow. This is a great home remody!
joker4422 from Galax, VA   USA	06/07/2009	BETTER BUT NOT CURED	I have had a terrible sore throat for several days now. The pain has been terrible and taking advil or tylenol has been like drinking water. neither was any help at all. after coming here to see what home remedies were out there, i tried 3 tsp of acv 3 tsp honey, and 8oz very warm water and sipped it like tea. it did'nt cure me but i did get some relief on the first glass. I've drank 3 glasses since yesterday and although the pain is still there it's not as intense
Debbie from San Diego, CA	06/03/2009	YEA	I too am here in the middle of the night looking for a remedy for my sore throat. I have a straight forward cold with swollen glands and a sore throat. I tried the 3 to 3 ACV and whatever honey was in my cupboard and it's been less than an hour and I have no pain! At first I was wary and gargled, and now an sipping my "tea"...it worked great for me, but I am only sipping as to not have stomach upset. The taste doesn't bother me at all! Thanks so much for all of the feedback which helped me to decide upon trying this particular home remedy. God Bless.
John from Houston, TX	05/24/2009	NAY	This was absolutely the worst thing I could have done. I'd taken ibuprophen for 2 days with only limited results so I came to this website. I used 3 tsp ACV, 3 tsp honey and 8 oz. hot water. While I was taking it it did provide limited relief. Gargled roughly half and drank the rest. 30 minutes later after sitting on the sofa and feeling it get worse I got up and checked my temp. My temp had gone from 99.9 immediately before the using the ACV to 102.8 thirty minutes after (so its not as if my mouth were still hot from the drink). This stuff is not only useless its dangerous in my opinion. Stay away from this and if you've got a sore throat, see a licensed physician.
Rhonda from Lawrenceville, Ga	04/30/2009	YEA	I've had a sore throat for 2 days and kept taking sinus medicine thinking it would dry up and my throat would stop hurting. I went onto this website looking for a remedy because mine was not working. I saw the remedy for 3 tsp ACV and 3 tsp honey and decided to give it a try in some hot water. It worked great. It really does soothe the burning right out of the back of the throat. What a great remedy....thanks....
Jason from Larchmont, NY	04/27/2009	YEA	8 oz hot water 3 tsp Apple Cider Vinegar 3 tsp Honey I tried this remedy for my sore throat (as suggested by someone on your website) because my throat was killing me and I have a huge meeting tomorrow. Halfway through the cup, my throat began to feel better and it doesn't taste too bad (not good but not bad).
MaryLynn from New London, Mn	04/25/2009	YEA	Sore throat-ACV: My son (22yr old) has had a sore throat for 4 days..he says it feel like there's metal hooks in there..so I looked up home remedies and found this site. My husband and I have used the raw vinegar and raw honey drinks before..which, I find to be a very soothing drink..anyway I made up a 8oz cup of hot water with 3 tsp vinegar and 3 tsp+ of honey and gave it to my son..he was amazed how much he felt better within a few minutes...sounds crazy for anything to work that fast..he said his body aches were better also...he is now sleeping peacefully :)
Mojgan from San Mateo, CA	04/23/2009	YEA	I have had a soar throat for about 4 mo. where it hurt to swallow my saliva. I couldn't sleep at night (didn't know why)and my husband complained of my snoring at night. I was told I have sleep apnea so I went to see a ENT specialist. He told me I have Acid Reflux and also allergy in my nose and breath though my mouth which makes me snore and I don't go to deep sleep. My life was hell, always tired and sleepy and just couldn't function in my daily life. My Dr. gave a pill to take for acid reflux (don't remember the name) and a steroid spray for my nose. I took them for 2 wks and they helped me sleep but my soar throat continued. Then I found this site :)
Heather from Jones, Florida	04/21/2009	YEA	I currently have a terrible sore throat that I need to get rid of rather quickly because I work with elderly people in a nursing home. I went online to see if I could find a quick fix and I saw a remedy for Apple Cider Vinegar and decided to try it. I put 3tsp ACV and 3tsp regular honey into a hot glass of water and mixed it so the honey wasn't all as the bottom. I gargled the entire glass, one mouthful at a time and literally, after the first few gargles, my throat felt much better! It's still a bit tender, but better than what it was, so I'll continue to gargle ever two hours for the next day. Hopefully by tomorrow it's completely gone!
Christina from Savannah, Georgia	04/10/2009	YEA	well i had a bad sore throat and i had to sing the next day so i searched the web for cures i ran across this site i tried the ACV and just warm water and just gargled it, to my surprise it started working immediatly the next day it was better.....the taste is a little horrible but you get use to it..thanks so much!!:)
Kenya from Nashville, TN	03/27/2009	YEA	My throat was hurting so bad that I could not sleep tonight. I thought about this website and went to the local store and picked up some apple cidar vinegar. Surprisingly, it did not taste as bad as the smelled. I will definitely share this remedy with my family and friends. Thank you so much for the help. I am glad that we as people are sticking together during tough times. Everyone cannot afford to run to a doctor for every little ailment. Thanks again.
Ali from Alexandria, VA	03/22/2009	YEA	I woke up this morning with a sore throat so bad that I could hardly speak. I tried the ACV (3 tsp) as suggested with 3 tsp of honey and HOT water. It was pretty good and it worked! I felt better right away. Thank you!
CJ from Sydney, NSW Australia	03/05/2009	YEA	After reading all the feedback on ACV for a sore throat, I decided to give it a try. I mixed 3 tsp of ACV, 2 tsp raw honey, 1 tsp Manuka honey and 8 oz of warm water. I was dreading the taste of it but it actually tastes not bad. Minutes later and I am feeling a slight relief. I gargled some of it and am sipping on the rest.
Chris from El Dorado Hills, California, USA	03/03/2009	YEA	i screwed up on it the first time. i did 3 tsp of acv and 3tsp of honey. no water. it tasted terrible. it burned and i nearly puked. then i tried again with the 8oz of water and it definitley helped my throat. I recommend people do this... just remember to add the water ;)
Stefanie from Boston, MA	02/25/2009	YEA	I have had a sore throat for about two days now and it wasn't working for me. I googled home remedies for sore throats and came across this website. I began reading about the Apple Cider Vinegar and believed it would work but was hesitant. I have been feeding this to my dog for a while now since shes been having a bladder problem and was suggested the ACV, which gave immediate results. The horrible smell of the ACV threw me off but I knew I had to do it so I gargled it, then choked it down. It was diluted with warm water so it was bearable but I almost threw it up immediately. Although it was disgusting it definitely worked, and I can feel my sore throat getting better already!
Aeron from Middleburg, VA	02/23/2009	YEA	I had not heard of this before, but after finding your website, I mixed 3 tsp organic ACV and 3 tsp raw organic honey in a mug of hot water and drank it. It's actually pretty tasty! My sore throat was IMMEDIATELY better. Now, day two, the sore throat is gone but I have some chest congestion/coughing.... I'm off to try some garlic. Thanks for this great site. I will refer back to it often.
T from Memphis, TN   U.S.	02/11/2009	BETTER BUT NOT CURED	3tblsp Apple cider vinegar, 8oz warm water and 3tblsp honey. helped soothe my burning throat. With the first time i took it a was able to swallow without pain. But i do plan on taking it 2 more times, so hopefully it will cure my sore throat.
Michele from Hamilton, Ontario Canada	02/11/2009	YEA	ACV and honey cured my sore throat. I did the 3 and 3 with 8 oz of warm water and my throat felt better right away. I took it before bed and woke up the next morning with no sore throat at all.
Harry and Betty from Fullerton, California	02/02/2009	YEA	Just experienced the grand daddy of all sore throats and decided to try the ACV/Honey recommendation and you've made a believer out of me. I blended 3 tablespoons of ACV with 3 tablespoons of honey to which I added 8 ounces of warm water. I started by gargling the entire glass and in approx. 2 hours started to feel minor improvement so repeated the process and sipped very small quantities the second time around. Again, in a couple of hours I experiened futher relief. I repeated the process a third time and experienced definite relief from what was agonizing pain. I continued the treatment for a total of five times and after 36 hours am completely pain free. This is a minor miracle when you consider I started with my ears on fire and barely able to swallow and only then with a lot of discomfort. Thanks much to all who shared their experiece with this treatment it was very beneficial. Harry S.
DeskExplorer from Bristol, CT	01/31/2009	YEA	I had a sore throat for about two days and it was very painful to swallow or talk. I decided to "google" for some home remedies for sore throat, before making an appointment to visit my doctor for antibiotics. I came to this site and decided to try the Apple Cider Vinegar with honey suggestion. I checked my cupboard and all I had was Apple Cider Vinegar and spring water in the fridge. I gargle with two capfull of apple cider vinegar mixed w/ warm water in a tea cup. I use half to gargle and the other half I sipped on until finished. My throat was still very sore, but I didn't expect immediate results. Nonetheless, about an hour before going to bed I decided to gargle with two capful of straight apple cider vinegar w/ no water. WHOA! THAT WAS INTENSE!! There was no burning or anything, but the vinegar was very STRONG! I awoke the next morning (6 hours later) and I could tell an immediate reduction in pain. Realising this I gargle two more capful of apple cider vinegar straight hoping that this would ease the pain even more. About 7-8 hours later the pain was completely gone. AMAZING!! This stuff really works!! Try it!
Jennifer from Long Beach, CA	01/30/2009	YEA	I gargled with about 1/4 cup pure apple cider vinegar and it immediately gave me relief from my sore throat. I swallowed a small amount right after and the sore throat was literally numbed. I love the taste of vinegar and am known to douse food with vinegar, and swallowing that last bit was even tough. I think it's best if you can tolerate the vinegar without diluting it.
Kay from Angus, Ontario, Canada	01/28/2009	YEA	REGARDING SORE THROATS. LAST WINTER WHILE IN FLORIDA I OBTAINED A VERY BAD SORE THROAT AND FOUND THAT IF I MIXED 2 TLBS OF HONEY WITH 2 TLBS OF APPLE CIDER VINEGAR AND TOOK A SPOONFUL OF THIS ABOUT EVERY HOUR IT CURED MY SORE THROAT AND SINCE I SING IN A BAND I COULD CONTINUE TO SING THAT EVENING. THIS ACV KILLS OFF THE BACTERIA AND THE HONEY IS A NATURAL CURE AS WELL.
plrsingp from Charlotte, North Carolina	01/23/2009	YEA	I have also had luck with using ACV as a remedy. But instead I used it to cure a sore throat. I had once read that using apple cider vinegar can kill bacteria that cause sore throats almost instantly. So what you do is gargle with 2 teaspoons of ACV and as little water as you can stand. Gargle for 30 seconds and then swallow... (the ACV contains potassium which is also good). Do it once every hour for a whole day and soon you will start to feel much better.
Sarah from Mebane, North Carolina	01/17/2009	YEA	acv worked well for me. i gargled with a 2-1 ratio of acv and water. gargled once every hour. decreased the water as tolerated. worked very well. sore throat was gone within 3 days.
Jane from Leeds, UK	01/14/2009	BETTER BUT NOT CURED	I could not sleep my throat was so sore it was really uncomfortable so I googled and found this site. I took 3 tblsp of ACV and 1 tblsp of Manuka Honey and it did help sooth it and I was able to get a few more hours sleep, I might do it again now as it's still sore. It was a bit horrible to take but the benefits were worth it.
Joan from Honolulu, Hawaii	12/30/2008	YEA	i tried the mixture of 3 tablespoons honey and 3 tablespoons of acv in 8 oz. of hot water, and have to say it really made a difference. my throat felt significantly better. in the past, gargling with acv has also helped me out. i plan to follow-up with gargling the acv. you have to gargle a LOT of it for as long as you can in order to fight off the sore throat. Thanks for the tip on the honey/acv mixture since it was easier for me to handle than the gargling.
Marianne from Portage, Indiana   USA	12/23/2008	NAY	I took 2 tbs acv, 2tbs honey and 8 ounces of water to help relieve cold symptoms and a sore throat. My throat is burning more than ever, is there something else that I can do to alleviate this problem.
Jennifer from Nunya, OH	12/17/2008	YEA	Wow, thank you for this great recommendation! I woke up tonight with the absolute worst sore throat of my life, so I went surfing for home remedies. Found this, tried it right away, and wow!! What a difference! I must drink it slow because the cider is a bit hard on my stomach, but it most definitely has reduced the pain significantly. Before, I couldn't even swallow without cringing. I'm only halfway through the cup now, so hopefully when I am done, the soreness will have completely dissipated- still a tad uncomfortable.
Ernestine from Millington, USA	12/16/2008	BETTER BUT NOT CURED	ACV (3 tablespoons) and honey (3 tablespoons) with warm water for sore throat. I just tried it as a gargle, as I have way too much acid reflux to swallow vinegar and diabetes so I can't swallow the honey. It burned my throat so that tells me it was killing germs. I am hoping for good result. My honey is natural and raw and I would expect that to work better than processed honey due to the fact that the processed honey hasn't got much of anything but sweetness in it. I did get a good laugh at the expense of the lady who vomited the mixture and said very emphatically: "DO NOT DO", poor thing. Maybe if she could tolerate garging with it, it would help.
Shelly from Santa Barbara, Ca, USA	12/07/2008	YEA	As a singer, my mentor told me that ACV would cure a sore throat, and he was right. Take 2 tablespoons straight from the bottle. I did that for the first time this morning, and I have to warn you that you need a good chaser otherwise you WILL throw up on the spot. The first tablespoon I chased with water, but for the second one (taken moments after the first)water was not strong enough. Orange juice worked well for me. On the bright side, it's only been half an hour and I can talk normally and my throat hurts no more. If you can stomach this it is the most immediate remedy I've found.
Thomas from Milford, PA	12/06/2008	YEA	cayenne for sore throats: be careful with the cayane pepper, it makes my hemroids bleed very bad. acv and honey works well for me. I use 1 tbl spoon each in hot water, but you can use more considering how bad a sore throat you have.
Thomas from Miami, Florida	11/26/2008	YEA	It really works for me. I use a strong dose whenever possible. At the first signs of a strep throat or a sore throat, I make a roughly-1:1 solution of just ACV and tap water. Gargle it and sip it every hour that I'm near it. If it gets worse after a day, I change to a less-pungent mixture of 1:2 ACV and tap water. Again, gargle it and sip it each hour. It helps kill off bacteria and, for me, had pointed out where the bacteria infected. If you are well-hydrated, almost any antibacterial will work. On the final days of my sore strep throat, I had a shot of 40% ABV vodka. So long as you target the infection and stay away from other medicines (I was off Ibuprofen for several hours), you will be able to kill bacteria and relax a bit. My biggest suggestions, in addition to using apple cider vinegar, is to keep drinking. I found that peppermint gum helped relieve stuffiness, and ignoring your lack of appetite is for the best.
Jim from Floyd, VA	11/24/2008	YEA	Got a sore throat Sat. morning that I attributed to hauling firewood for a couple of hours in the 20 degree temperatures. Still Sore Sunday morning with additional cold symptons so I went to the internet and found this site. Tried 3 tablespoons of Honey with 3 tablespoons of Apple Cider Vinager in a cup of hot water. Wow!! Pain gone before I finished the cup and a day later it has not returned. Still had cold symptons so drank the "tea" twice more and again this am. No side effects and cold symptons are minimal. One tip, hold your breath before you stick your nose of the mug, that stuff stinks.
Mark from Kingston, NY	11/20/2008	YEA	Ive had this sore throat for the past few days, got really bad today. Found this side, and tried the ACV with 3 tablespoons of ACV and honey and a cup of water. I had just made tea so the water was real hot. It seams to be working very well. Hopefully will go back to work tomorrow. Thanks for the idea.
Robbin from Chesapeake, Va	11/16/2008	YEA	WOW This really does work. I have been sick for a week and my throat felt like there were rocks in there every time I swallowed. I tried honey and tea, Sore throat spray and cough drops, but after the first 3 sips of the ACV in warm water with honey It felt better. I'm a believer. Thanks for this valuable info.
C from San Diego, CA	11/03/2008	YEA	ACV for sore throat in a 3 year old
Elizabeth from MEMPHIS, TN	10/18/2008	YEA	WOW! Didnt believe that ACV thing would work! Nothing personal...I'm just a cynic by experience but honestly must say that I have just finished my first round of "sipping" and the ACV and H20 for acute sore throat has already greatly relieved the pain, unclogged my ears, and I can actually feel my nasal passage opening! I've tried at least 5 different OTC products and all I felt was dehydrated and light-headed. My throat hurt so bad that everytime I coughed a it felt like a tree the size of my fist was trying to emerge from my stomach! AND NOW...100 percent improvement from even an hour ago! I am super grateful! I may even try to eat something later!
Andrew from Mesquite, NV	10/15/2008	YEA	I had Sore throat, congestion in my nose and cough. I use to gargle with salt water for my sore throat and didn't work as well as. The last time I had sore throat, I tried HALLS cough drops and that worked really well. Now, they don't work on me anyone. I don't know why. So I tried the APPLE CIDER VINEGAR, it worked well on my sore throat and did clear my nose, but its not working on my cough as well. I hate the taste. I'm happy with the result.
Parminder Singh from Brampton, Ontario, Canada	10/09/2008	YEA	Apple Cider Vinegar and Honey in water cured my sore throat instantly! I'm surprised how well it worked. I can breathe again. Thanks bunches, dudes!
Leslie from Jamestown, NC, USA	10/07/2008	SIDE EFFECTS	I tried the 3 T ACV, 3 T Honey, and 8 oz warm water to cure my sore throat. This was a bad idea for me. I am pregnant, so my gag reflux is ultra sensitive. I tried drinking it first, but it really started to nauseate me, so I decided to gargle. As soon as it hit the back of my throat, I threw up.
Jen from Vancouver, Wa	10/04/2008	YEA	I mixed 3 Tblspns of ACV and 3 Tblspns of Honey with 1 cup of warm water. After just few sips, I could feel the difference in my sore throat. It was completely gone by the time I had finished the entire glass.
Julie from San Diego, CA, USA	10/01/2008	YEA	Wow! It works! I drank ACV last night. I used 1 cup of hot water mixed with 3 table spoons of ACV and 3 table spoons of honey. My sore throat is gone. I didn't see the revised ACV recipe (16oz water with 2 tablespoons of ACV). But I will ask my husband to try that. He has been coughing for 2 weeks. Cold medicines only helped with sinus problem but coughing is still pretty frequent.
Erica R from Miami, Florida	09/25/2008	YEA	Apple Cider Vinegar cured my Sore Throat in a day. I gargled Apple Cider Vinegar about 6 times a day, and also drank 3 tablespoons of it in water twice a day. It really does work. I wasn't sure it was going to work, but decided to give it a try. My sore throat was much better each time I took it, and gone the next day! Highly recommended!
Roger from Warrenton, Virginia	09/21/2008	YEA	I have had a sore throat on and off for 2 weeks. I got the usual for my doctor, antibiotic and decongestant. Three days ago I was back in as it had come back worse than before. All he did was change the antibiotic and told me to continue to use a salt water gargle. I have hardly slept since as my throat was so sore even to swallow. I happened to come across this web site early this morning and tried the ACV and honey in warm water treatment. It worked GREAT! I used 3TBS of ACV and 3TBS of organic honey in exactly 1 cup warm water. I was nervous at first as I have GERD and IBS but it went down with no problem. My proof is in my current condition: throat pain is virtually gone and I have coughed up more crud than in the past week of taking muciinexD!!!!
Benita from Atlanta, GEORGIA	09/16/2008	YEA	I had a very severe sore throat. I tried the ACV with honey & garlic and it helped a great deal. I added lemon juice to the mixture for good measure. Also when, I had "the runs", I used Tumeric and it was almost working immediately. So this is a YEA for home remedies.
Rachel from Boston, Massachusetts	09/14/2008	YEA	I tried the 3tbs ACV and 3 tbs honey in a mug of warm water, and let me tell you, I almost threw-up the mixture, but once I had downed it all, my throat felt 100 times better, Thanks!
Beki from Norman, Oklahoma	09/10/2008	YEA	I love eating spinach and vinegar anyway so when I saw it was a cure for my sore throat I was thrilled and it worked. Thanks so much.
Lucy from Exshaw, Canada	09/04/2008	YEA	I've had a sore throat for a couple days now. It was so bad that I couldn't eat sleep or swallow comfortably. I took today off work in hope of getting better for a planned weekend hiking in the Assiniboine area. I really didn't want to cancel the trip so I looked for remedies on the net. I found this site and gave the ACV a shot. I've just drank a mug of the stuff and it is noticeably better. I think I might be in good shape for tomorrow! Thanks for all the comments!
Lacey from Willoughby, Ohio	08/25/2008	NAY	i tried the 8 ounces warmed over pickle juice. couldn't even make it through the whole glass, i drank about 4 ounces. i waited about 10 minutes, nothing, still sore. so i moved on to the 3 tbs of acv and 3 tbs of honey in hot water. i drank 8 ounces of that stuff. let me tell ya. there is no getting over the taste, i had to choke it down... it didn't cure my sore throat it only made my belly hurt!
Carol from Boston, MA	08/13/2008	YEA	I am so grateful for this home remedy website and forum! My daughter has Mono and over the last 2 days has had an unbearably sore thoat. We tried everything (salt water gargle, steriod solution gargle, advil, codiene...) and nothing was working. She couldn't even swallow her saliva. It was preventing her from sleeping, and when you have mono, thats all you want to do. I happened upon this website and she gave it a shot. Using the 3 tablespoons of ACV and Honey in warm water was not particularly appetizing, but after drinking it, she was able to sleep 4 hours and now says that her throat is so much better. I am now a believer in home remedies!
Cretia from Cleveland, Ohio	07/28/2008	YEA	I actually have been drinking apple cider vinegar everyday as a part of keeping my body healthy. I stopped drinking it up until about a month ago. Looking on the internet for some home remedy relief for my sore throat, I stumbled on this site. Its kinda funny to see that this can cure a sore throat and it made me feel like I shouldn't have ever stopped drinking it at all but hey it did its job it is worth a try for all the people out there scared to take it.
Madeline from Buffalo, NY	07/25/2008	YEA	I'm a singer and woke up this morning with a dull soreness and scratchy feeling in the back of my throat. I immediately went online to find a cure or a quick fix up, and I found this site! Absoultely amazing... I tried the mix of Apple Cider Vinegar, honey, and hot water. I am now drinking this amazing drink and my sore throat is GONE! Thank you so much! I used 3 tbs of ACV, 3 tbs of honey, and a cup of hot water. The taste and smell is strong at first, but you get used to it. Thank you!
Zach from Houston, Texas	07/22/2008	YEA	wow! as soon as i read this website i quickly tried the suggested 3 tbl spoons of acv and honey with warm water. as i write this comment now i am drinking this miracle concoction. i'm not even 1/2 way done with my glass and i am feeling alot better! i recommend this to anyone who has been suffering from a sore throat for a short amount of time...like me. Although the smell is a little strong and the taste is strong at first..GET OVER IT! This will help.
Brittany from Hagerstown, Maryland	06/28/2008	YEA	My step mom is a nurse and when i had a sore throat i asked her the best home remedy because i have no medical insurance. She told me to add 2 tbs of acv to an 8oz glass of water, and gargle and swallow every 30 minutes. Within 5-6 hours my strep throat was completely gone. Everytime i get a sore throat, this is what i do. It tastes horrible, but helps immensily. Thank goodness for a nurse in the family!
Lisa from Piscataway, NJ	06/23/2008	YEA	Thank you so much for this site. I was thinking about going to the Dr. tomorrow for a bad sore throat and lump in my throat...I don't like Dr's very much my I had 3 natural childbirths the last one at home...so I'm usually pretty bad if I go. AMAZING!!! is all I have to say. I gargled with acv, OJ, salt and warm h2o (no exact measurements I'm Italian...so a splash of this and a pinch of that)and I can't believe how quick the releif came. Thank you again. I can't wait to read some of the other remedies on your site!
Judy from Mission Viejo, CA	06/21/2008	NAY	I gargled with ACV the last time I had a sore throat and it worked like a charm. It seemed to "sweeten" the soreness in my throat and took out the pain. This last sore throat was so bad I could not swallow so I went for the ACV again and gargled it straight. I accidentally swallowed a gulp-full and it immediately burned and constricted my throat so I could not breathe. It was as tho I swallowed acid. I was alone and scared to death that I was just going to die on the spot. I sucked in air the best I could until I was able to fill my lungs. It was the scariest thing I ever had happen to me, I do not recommend this unless you really dilute it!! I won't ever go near it again. That episode did it for me! Be careful!
SteveT from Berkley, Ma.	06/19/2008	YEA	Does it work?????? OHHH yeah! Woke up at 4am with what felt like a mouth full of glass... Couldnt swallow air let alone liquids. I downed a cup of tea with 3 tablespoons(yea I went heavy) of ACV and a shake of sugar. First sip was a killer, i almost yakked from the taste alone. By the 3rd sip my throat had calmed down to the point where the pain was minimal at best. I figured Id do one better and proceeded to drink 4 ounces of ACV straight! Well after I spent the next 6 hrs on the commode...the pain was gone! No kidding. This stuff really works folks.
Kristin from Tulsa, Oklahoma	06/18/2008	YEA	Good morning! I woke up around 3:30 this morning with my throat so swollen I almost had a panic attack. I have been struggling with sinusitis and allergies for several months now, and believe it culminated this week into a severe sore throat. I did break down and take amoxocillin the last time (just three weeks ago) but broke out in a rash on 7th day. I am not willing to try antibiotics again so soon, so got online to see if anything could be found for relief. My throat hurt so bad 20 minutes ago, it brought back memories of a tonsillectomy in 3rd grade. I now know that sugar just feeds these things, but in order to get through my day yesterday, I had to do couph drops. So I tried the 2 tbs ACV in water(a normal sized mug) with a tbs of natural honey. IT WORKS! I am not pain free, but I can swallow without severe pain. I will be taking a large serving of this with me today! I cannot thank you enough, as I was really in panic mode. I notice now I am breaking a sweat, which I consider a good thing, toxins releasing. I will be including this in my daily regimine froom now on. I am a hygienist though, and do recommend trying it with the soda or immediately brushing your teeth thoroughly after use, as this can do severe damage to your teeth. Thanks so much, I now know I can make it through today, and that I don't have to take an antibiotic. Much relief!
Matt from Paxton, Illinois	05/31/2008	YEA	Woke up at around 4:30 A.M. and my throat was killing me. It's been this way after a couple weeks and a full regiment of Penicillin. I googled about sore throats and found this site. Made me a conconction of ACV and tea and it's working surprisingly well. Use 1 cup water, throw in a teabag of earl gray tea add 2 teaspoons suger and 2 tablespoons ACV. Seems to be working for me, hope it works for others too.
Bonnie from Sandy Ridge, N.C. U.S.A.	05/28/2008	YEA	My throat was hurting so bad,and woke me in the early hours this morning. I have gargled several times today with warm salt water. When I found this website I tried 3 Tbs. ACV,3 Tbs.honey,and 6 oz.warm water. My throat has already eased. thank you so much.
Bob from London, Canada	05/21/2008	NAY	Sore Throat Remedies: Every site I looked at said ACV really works...... WRONG! I used 2 tbsp in 1 cup of warm water, gargled it. My throat hurt even more after that. I went to the hospital it hurt so bad. Was told it wasn't strep, just very very red and inflamed. the ACV actually burnt my throat. I am finally starting to feel a little better after 5 days. So in my opinion stick to the salt and water solution and avoid the ACV.
Meesha from San Jose, CA	05/14/2008	YEA	Sore Throats: Apple Cider Vinegar and Honey go a long way!!! My sore throat started only a day ago and has gotten so bad that it hurt to drink water and talk. It just woke me up at 3am (as I write this). So I searched and found this site. As a Nurse Practitioner I have been educated about all the different meds out there, but lack the education in any herbal remedies (which would have been nice). Though I do recommend that for any sore throat lasting over a week, or if you are unable to talk or breath, or if you have white patches on your throat in the mouth, seek help from your health care provider...anyway, the point is that the ACV remedy worked for me! I dropped about 2 Table Spoons of ACV with a Table Spoon or two (depending on taste) in some water and heat it up...I have been sipping on it while typing this and am now able to swallow my spit without wincing...it isn't completely gone, but maybe now I can get some sleep.
Jesse from Seattle, WA	04/12/2008	YEA	Absolutely speechless! My sore throat came on fast over the course of 1 day. By the end of the first night, it proved to be the worst I've had to date. skeptical, but desporate, I thought if its a bad idea, it wont hurt much worse. I just mixed apx 3 tsp in some normal tea, I've taken 4 sips while writing this and I already feel so much better, not gone, but mild enough to live with. Sounds scary, but you'll be very plesantly suprised. This is one chance you wont regret taking.
Jessica from Bronx, United States	03/22/2008	YEA	My fiance had a sore throat that was absolutely terrible for 24 hrs. My car has been acting funny so I couldn't drive to a store to buy medicine. I found this website and we happen to have ACV in the cabinet. I mixed two tablespoons of that with a half cup of warm water which he sipped slowly. He felt a little relief after two minutes. The rest of the night he drank cinnamon tea with a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar and was all better.
Michelle from Portland, US	03/20/2008	YEA	I ingest Apple Cider Vinegar, raw, organic, unfiltered, with the mother... I get sore throats a few times a year... I gargle with cider vinegar diluted with bottled spring water.
Jacob from Livingston, Tennesse	03/15/2008	YEA	I've had a nasty sore throat for about a week now. I was finally getting fed up and decided to find something to help. I've been sipping on the ACV, honey, and orange juice for about 30 min now and my throat is feeling a lot better. I can actually swallow my own saliva again.
Antonio from Perth, Western Australia	03/13/2008	YEA	I have been battling with a frustrating sore throat for the past few days now , just began with the usuals such as warm teas with honey and whatnot , though it did not seem to work at all . I then went to my pharmacist tried a throat gargle and and an antiseptic lozenge for half a day without any improvement . I woke at midnight ( tonight ) with a throat i could not swallow or speak with , i was even considering going to the hospital before bumping into this site which seemed to be quite helpful from the off set . I gathered that this cayenne powder worked , though i did not have any on hand so i found a trend of anything hot would be beneficial in relieving a sore throat . So i found some curry powder , initially i put in a few teaspoons to a glass of warm water and only gargled , it was annoying hot though i i didn't swallow , so i tried a teaspoon of black pepper with the curry, gargled and swallowed ... i coughed and choked as well as various burning sensations deep within the affected area . I then read on another post about someone sipping tablespoons of vinegar, took two tablspoons initially ... they went down well with more of a stinging knife poking sensation in my throat , so i finished up taking one more ... I can swallow to a degree , stuffiness in my head has subsided , though i will check in the morning to see how i feel.
Kimberly from Orlando, Florida	03/01/2008	YEA	I have had the most horrible sore throat for 6 days now. I have finally lost my patience with it and I went online this morning to see if I could find something to fix it.. Thank You Thank You for this site.. I found the ACV, some lemon juice and a drop of honey. Warmed up the mix and gargled, gargled and gargled some more. Now I have a little cup to sip on. It is feeling some better, not a whole lot, but I just started. Heck any relief right now I am satisfied with. Oh definitely keep a glass of water near by so you dont get dehydrated or if you choke.
Janice from Pensacola, FL, USA	02/25/2008	YEA	I discovered the wonders of ACV a few months ago. My husband caught a viral infection and was so sick he lost 2 days work, after two weeks he was still sick and I got a scratchy throat by the 3rd day I could barely talk or eat it hurt so bad. My Mom suggested I try ACV and honey mixed together and take 1 TBL 3 times a day. I was desperate so I tried it. 1 spoon in the morning and wow did it burn my throat I had to drink some water to stop the burn, I had 3 spoons of the ACV and honey mixture and that evening my sore throat was gone!!! My husband refused to try it and a few days later he called me from work and said he was going to the ER because he felt so sick. He was sent home with a prescription. I told him just try the ACV and honey, you have been sick all this time but I was sick only 3 days, just try it! He did and it worked, he never filled the prescription. I plan on buying some unprocessed ACV to treat other health problems I have. ACV is a wonder.
Melissa from Tifton, georgia	02/20/2008	YEA	I found that dreams do come true.Ive had the sore throat for three agonizing days and i seen where it said ACV can get read of sore throat. So i gave it a try.So ive taken 1tsp of ACV vinegar, half of orange juice sweezed, salt (desired amount) with hot water works best for me.i gargle with it and it cleared the mucus in my throat and cured my sore throat within 10 minutes.It really works! Thanks for sharing this with me and to the world. People you really need to try it.
Jennifer from Rockford, Illinois	01/06/2008	YEA	I am very predisposed to having cold, sinusitis, bronchitis, and up til now, I have taken probably 1/2 dozen different antibiotics, nasal and oral inhalers, and decongestants. Taking so much at once tended to make me feel worse, and the inhalers ultimately irritated my sinuses. I finally tried a couple different acv recipes to relieve my cough and sore throat. I have not taken one prescription since, and I'm having trouble less often. As soon as I feel a tickle in my throat, I reach straight for the acv. My preferred recipe is 3 parts acv, 3 parts lemon juice, and 2 parts honey with a shot or so of hot water to help dissolve the honey. I've read that organic would be better, but I've just used the standard grocery store stuff, and it's still been nothing short of miraculous. The taste is honestly not as bad as any cough syrup or decongestant I've ever taken, and it's easily twice as effective. The tickle in my chest that precedes a serious coughing fit is STOPPED ALTOGETHER before I even finish drinking this. I am still sort of stunned at how effective this is. Last night I didn't get a chance to mix up a little thermos to bring to work with me, and I regretted it this morning. The congestion in my chest had built up during the evening and overnight, and this morning the cough had settled in a bit. I've been taking a dose every couple of hours, or whenever that tickle comes back, and I've already gotten a lot of congestion out of my chest and sinuses, and my ears have cleared out and everything. This is the most phenomenal and fastest-working remedy I've ever used. I've been spreading the word to my friends and family since. I'll never take decongestants again! Thank you from the bottom of my heart!
Maureen from Cambridgeshire, England	12/31/2007	YEA	I had a sore throat for about 4 days and the tickly cough was driving me crazy. In desperation I trawled the internet and found your site and the ACV remedy. Luckily I had a bottle of ACV in the cupboard and so I tried it with honey dissolved in a small amount of water. It was horrible to swallow but the results were almost instant. The annoying cough has now mostly gone and I had a good nights sleep. My throat still feels a little 'lumpy' but its bearable now. Thanks to all who posted the remedy.
Deb from San Antonio, Texas	12/27/2007	YEA	Wow, I already feel some improvement!! I found this website out of desperation as I would much rather try something homeopathic than have to go see a Dr. Have had a sore throat for the last 2 days and it got to the point that I could not even swallow my own saliva with out discomfort or cringing (ms). I tried the ACV, honey and water method and felt instant relief. I will keep sipping throughout the day. Just in the last couple of sips I already feel better. It is the holiday season and I want to be able to eat delicious food and not just soup!!! Thanks for this website. By the way, why is the vinegar bad for teeth?
Nick from Halifax, NS, Canada	12/26/2007	YEA	I am 21 and have been taking ACV for about a month now and I have noticed a increase in energy especially after I take it. Most of all it made my allergies and fluid build up (around throat and sinus) almost disapper. I swig oragnic pure ACV (with mother) strait from the bottle. I try to ingest only a tablespoon each time. Then rinse my mouth with water (to protect teeth) then drink a big glass of water. I try to do it twice daily. My bother asked my if I had any cough drops when he was at my house not long ago and I said no but you can try some of this ACV. He tryed a little swig and he said it instanly took his sore thoat away. It makes your senses almost come alive, it's the real deal.
Kelly from Seattle, WA, U.S.A	11/17/2007	YEA	Yes, I felt instant relief. After spraying my mouth with cloraseptic spray, gargling with salt, drinking tea all in sequence. I went online and found this remedy, and I was skeptical at first. Mostly just scared of potential burning sensation on my throat. But I just mixed ACV with water, waited a bit, and I feel much better. My breathing has improved too. I'm looking forward to a good night of rest! Thank you.
Missy from Plattsburgh, New York	11/04/2007	YEA	To the gentleman whom has used apple cider vinegar, hot water and honey to cure his sore throat for fifteen years, Thank You! I have had a sore throat for two days along with discomfort in my chest due to a dry cough. I am sipping on a cup of your "cure" as I type. I feel a slight tingle but no burning. The taste leaves room for desire but, I can survive it. I am getting ready for bed so I will let you know how I feel tomorrow. Keeping my fingers crossed for a good night sleep.
Marcia from saddle brook, nj	10/25/2007	YEA	I have had a cold forever. My throat has been sore for ever as well. I just went online to check out and see if anything was online for cures. Sure enough we had some apple cider vinegar and my hand to god gargled with it and I feel better already. Thanks for the tip I will tell all!!
Claudia from Wayne, USA	09/28/2007	NAY	Glad to know that the Apple Cider Vinegar remedy works for so many. It didn't work for me: it made matters much worse. I've had a nasty sore throat for weeks. Throat cultures by the ENT revealed nothing out of the ordinary. I tried the ACV remedy but by the following day, the pain in my throat intensified. In search of some relief, I ventured to the health food store. I'm now using a Propolis throat spray (alcohol free). I felt much better after the first application. Things are improving nicely. Good luck to all.
Rob from Ocala, florida	09/01/2007	YEA	Okay, so my wife has me all paranoid about this volcano of a sore throat I've had for four days, so bad I can't even sleep at night and now I'm starting to get a little worried. I get online and come to this site to see if there is anything I can do before going to a doctor on Tuesday. I read about using apple cider vinegar and go on the hunt in the kitchen to see if we have some at 1am, I find it and mix like 2 tbsp of it with one cup of water and start gargling. At first it kind of burned, but I stayed consistent and gargled about every hour and a half. It's now 7am and I only feel a little bit of an ache in my throat. This will be one I use from now on and make my kids use in the future. Thanks for the info, maybe tonight I will get some sleep.
Bob from SLC, UT	07/03/2007	YEA	Apple cider vinegar cured my sore throat. I had a sore throat for the last 2 days and woke up at 4 am this morning it hurt so bad I could hardly swallow. After searching for remedies I found this site and read about apple cider vinegar and made a tea with 3 Tbsp of apple cider vinegar 3 Tbsp lemon juice 2 Tbsp of honey and 16 oz. water, then I heated it to sipping temperature. Its almost 6 am now and my sore throat is nearly gone.
Helen from Stroud, England	06/20/2007	YEA	I have used the following recipe for my throat whenever it feels sore or tired. I am a singer and so it has been really helpful to have an easy natural remedy to use. Heat up 1 desert spoon of cider vinegar, about 1 cm fresh ginger, chopped, in water (enough for one or two drinks depending on how strong you like it). Strain the drink into a cup and add one teaspoon of honey. Drink while still warm.
Roxanne from Las Pinas, Philippines	05/15/2007	YEA	I was looking for a cure for my sore throat when i came across your website with remedies for my ailment. The moment I read that apple cider vinegar is used to cure sore throats, i ran to the kitchen to find some! By the grace of God, I had all the ingredients except the lemon juice which i substituted with calamansi juice. I'm drinking it now and my sore throat is going away faster than i expected! I thank God for all of you! Thank you so much!!! God bless!
Michael from Placerville, California	05/08/2007	YEA	First, one point must be made. Apple Cider Vinegar kills every germ, bacteria, and virus ON CONTACT!!!So if you travel into a foreign country where the water might not be the healthiest, and concuming the food there might also be seriously questionable, take a tablespoon of Apple Cider Vinegar before ingesting any food. If you do develope food poisoning from food or water, throw down just one tablespoon of Apple Cider Vinegar and within a short time the miseries will be gone. Too strong to just gulp it down? Take a cup of very hot water and add one tablespoon of honey and add to it three tablespoons of Apple Cider Vinegar. Stir until the honey is dissolved, then add a little cool water so you do not burn your mouth, and drink it. For a sore throat - make the same mixture of hot water, honey and cider vinegar, and then SIP - DO NOT GULP IT DOWN. The sore throat will be gone overnight, because every time you SIP the mixture, it washes down your throat and kills more and more of the infection. At first you will feel the sting of it working, but quickly that goes away and the throat begins to feel much, much better. For a good and sound night's sleep? Slowly drink the mixture and go to bed. Why? Your chemistry is different between first thing in the morning and at bedtime, so at night the drink will help you achieve a peaceful and sound sleep, and then in the morning drink it and it will give you a shot of energy! I hope all this helps someone. It has helped me for the past fifteen years.
Whitney from Belleville, IL	12/31/2006	YEA	I tried the 3 tbls apple cider vinegar with 3 tbls lemon 2 tbls honey and 16 oz of water. Today is new years eve, and what does everyone do on this night, party. I definitely did not want to stay home sucking on cough drops all night while everyone one was having fun. So i look online for cures, i saw this one and it worked! I tried it and I started to feel better instantly!
Elizabeth from Bayside, NY	07/12/2006	YEA	I've been reading about ACV in a few health/diet books for the past 2 years. But, I thought I'd rather die than drink vinegar. But, one night I had the worst sore throat ever. It was 6:30 on a Friday night so out of desperation I gargled with it on and off for two hours. Can I tell you that the worst sore throat I have ever had was cured by this method. I also drank hot tea, with organic raw honey, lemon, and ACV. It was soothing and I figured I was cleansing my body too. My sore throat was one of those where you can't even swallow your own saliva and you just have to keep spitting it out. Gross but true. Since I knew the Drs. were closed and I would have to wait til Monday I decided to give it a go. W/in 20 min, my throat cleared up. It was an incredible miracle. I'm the first to admit that a lot of stuff is quacky. However, I have turned my beliefs into knowing the true and earthclinic is more truth than I have read in a long time. Thanks readers! and Ted from Bangkok. Thanks and much love
Jessi from Ontario	06/27/2006	YEA	This stuff is AMAZING. I have been sick for over a month and had the worst sore throat, it cured me in 3 days! I am also lactose intolerant, and by taking 2tbsp ACV in Punch and a glass of lactaid i no longer have the effects I used to have, it has also helped me regain my energy, and lose weight! I feel better than I have in years!!! P.S. putting the ACV in fruit punch almost completely covers the taste.
Randy from Suisun, CA	06/23/2006	YEA	I would like to say thanks for the great advice on the web site. I was hurting for more that 2 weeks now. Went to the doctors and got a throat culture said it was fine and no strep throat. i said ok but why does it still hurt. 3 days later it got worse -- lemon and honey didn't work... went back to hospital. Cussed the hell out of the doctor, already spent 200 dollars and lost 15 pounds in 3 days. Could not eat or drink. Put me on antibiotics... still no fix in 3 days said will cure up in 24hrs. I tried the vinegar apple cider. 8 hrs later i was able to swallow and chew foods. Thanks for everything.
Tara from Brooklyn, NY	05/22/2006	YEA	I READ ALL THE DIFFERENT REMEDIES FOR A SORE THROAT- GARLIC, ACV, TOBASCO, HONEY, CAYENNE AND I DIDN'T KNOW WHICH TO CHOOSE! SO I COMBINED THEM ALL TOGETHER. 8 OUNCES OF HOT WATER AND 4 TBS OF ACV, 2TBS HONEY, SEVERAL DROPS OF TOBASCO, 2 CLOVES OF GARLIC 1/2 TEASPOON OF CAYENNE. I STINK BUT I FEEL GREAT! VERY POWERFUL DRINK BUT NOT SO TASTY AND YOU HAVE TO KEEP STIRING SO NOTHING SETTLES.
Carrie from Shelby Township, MI	05/15/2006	YEA	I always remember my grandma putting Apple Cider Vinegar on our sunburns when we were up north in the summer and limited on supplies. It always took the sting out and healed quickly. Then, I stumbled on your site (thank goodness!) for some tips on relieving my cold and sore throat (mixing ACV with lemon and honey and drinking it with warm water). I am pregnant and unable to take much cough/cold medicine and needed to find an alternative. This helped immensely and I wasn't in a fog like most cold medicines put you in. The sore throat was gone overnight and the cold a few days later.
Sierra from La Mesa, CA	05/02/2006	NAY	for the past week i have had the worst sore throat i can imagine. i would cringe every time i had to swallow, and the left side of the back of my throat was swelled up and almost kinda blue. i have been on aspirin most of the time and that almost makes it completely die down, however it doesn't cure it at ALL. i thought it went away 3 days ago but yesterday i discovered i had it back again. i tried the ACV w/ water and a little honey but couldn't even keep my mouth open long enough to gargle it. then i tried the cajan (sp?) pepper, and that felt like it was going to do something but nothing so far. my best bet right now is aspirin, as sad as that is, and a little honey helps soothe it every now and then. i still have yet to try the lemon but i've found that hot soup is always a nice option.
Patricia from Mayfield Heights, Ohio	04/24/2006	YEA	ACV vapors cured a very bad sore throat that was back behind my left ear. I have a deviated septum so, I felt very positive about inhaling the fumes of the cider vinegar. I figured this would be better than the saline spray I had been using for 2 days. Within minutes I was able to cough up and blow a lot of mucus from my nasal passage!! and my throat....WAS BACK TO NORMAL!!!! Thank YOU SO MUCH!!. All of you guys and ladies who took the time to put your comments and results on this site. I hope I have helped someone with my results as well. I love this site!!
Alison from Odessa, TX	04/21/2006	YEA	Yeah, my right tonsil has swollen and has been this way for 2 days so I googled home remedies. It has gotten to the point where drinking, eating, or swallowing hurts to the "can't stand it" point. It still hurts, but no where near as much as it did. Thanks!
Jenny from Chandler, Oklahoma	03/01/2006	YEA	ACV, honey, cayenne pepper, and lemon juice with hot water. At first, I only received slight relief from my sore throat, but after about the third cup, I was feeling much better. Tried the tomato tea too but wasn't quite as good as I had hoped. Love your website.
Justin from OK	02/24/2006	YEA	I read about the ACV treatment for a sore throat, it took me a while to muster up the courage and gargle it, but mixing 2 Table spoons of ACV, 2 table spoons of lemon Juice, and about 24 oz of water. Didn't make it so bad, plus it isn't so bad for your teeth enamel that way. It works!!
Samantha from Eleebana NSW	02/13/2006	YEA	Salty Water is a great one but it take too long. Vinegar and honey actually works quiet well it may be the most disgusting thing on the planet but it works. Just remember to take sips of water in between taking the remedy.
Kim G from Tampa Bay, FL	02/06/2006	YEA	Yesterday I came down with an awful sore throat, accompanied with a nagging cough and chills. My throat literally felt like it was on fire. I did a search and found this page. I've used it for many things, but I would have never thought about Apple Cider Vinegar for a sore throat. Although I don't make a habit of it, I am one of the few people that can drink Apple Cider Vinegar straight. Anyway, being concerned about the tooth enamel thing, I went ahead and poured Apple Cider Vinegar in a shot glass, drank it like a sailor and washed it down with spring water afterward. I did this about once every hour for approximately six hours. Here I am, six hours later, and I can actually swallow without cringing. My sore throat is manageable and my accompanied cough has also calmed down. Thanks for the tip!
Karen from BKLYN, NY	02/01/2006	YEA	I always use vinegar/honey equal parts, when I have a sore throat, the vinegar kills bacteria, just like antibiotics.
Robert from Queens, NY	01/30/2006	YEA	Since there are so many chemicals in what we eat, and the pharmaceutical companies are making millions from us. I have decided to go natural with certain things. Yesterday a friendly cashier coughed in my direction. That night I suffered from the most horrible sore throat and nasal congestion I have ever had. After a little research I took ACV with warm water, gargled at first then drank the rest. If you want a quick natural cure, this is the way to go. Not only did my sore throat go away, but my entire nasal cavity was drained. (Sorry) no infection, thank god, some ear wax came out without any trouble. Cheap, and no doctor visit. They are going to have to get money from someone else.
Laura from Mt. Pleasant	01/11/2006	YEA	The Apple Cider Vinegar has to be the nastiest thing ever created, it really does not taste good, but my voice does not crack, squeak, or break anymore.
Parag from Grand Rapids, MI	11/20/2005	YEA	ACV worked like a Charm! I was at 5:30 in the morning with a powerful sore throat and a hoarse voice. I had to teach a class next day and I was worried. Googled and found your website. Tried the ACV (Heinz, 5% acidity) lime juice  Local-make clover honey  warm water followed by rinsing my mouth to remove the acid (for my teeth). It was effective immediately! I was able to teach the next day! Thank you! I also had 5 fresh raw Basil leaves twice a day. Helped me with my cold and cough. And about 2 brown dried dates for strength.
"I mixed up one recipe I found where I mixed 16 oz of water with 3 TBLS of Apple Cider Vinegar, 3 TBLS of Lemon Juice, and 2 TBLS of Honey. In less than 24 hours my sore throat (which was so bad I constantly dripped water in the back of my throat just to swallow) was COMPLETELY GONE WITHOUT A TRACE!"	Trannon from Tratsworth, Georgia	YEA	I mixed up one recipe I found where I mixed 16 oz of water with 3 TBLS of Apple Cider Vinegar, 3 TBLS of Lemon Juice, and 2 TBLS of Honey. In less than 24 hours my sore throat (which was so bad I constantly dripped water in the back of my throat just to swallow) was COMPLETELY GONE WITHOUT A TRACE!
"My daughter found your site a while ago, in desperation because she was working at a local retail store that offered no health care, and she had a horrible sore throat and decided to try the ACV, and we've been sold on it ever since. At the first signs of a cold or flu we take a shot [2 tablespoons approx.] of AVC, and then follow with a glass of water. And we repeat this 4 times in that first day, and bam! The soreness has gone by the next morning and we feel nearly 100% better. After that first day we'll do the 4 doses a day for a day or two. We used to be huge sinus infection people -- probably because we love our cats, and lived with a smoker. Now, the colds barely get a hold of us, and we never have to take antibiotics! AVC is the cure!!"	Del from Denver, Colorado	YEA	My daughter found your site a while ago, in desperation because she was working at a local retail store that offered no health care, and she had a horrible sore throat and decided to try the ACV, and we've been sold on it ever since. At the first signs of a cold or flu we take a shot [2 tablespoons approx.] of AVC, and then follow with a glass of water. And we repeat this 4 times in that first day, and bam! The soreness has gone by the next morning and we feel nearly 100% better. After that first day we'll do the 4 doses a day for a day or two. We used to be huge sinus infection people -- probably because we love our cats, and lived with a smoker. Now, the colds barely get a hold of us, and we never have to take antibiotics! AVC is the cure!!
"ACV (Apple Cider Vinegar) with lemon juice, honey and water helped significantly with the sore throat!!"	Gerrad from St Louis, MS	YEA	ACV (Apple Cider Vinegar) with lemon juice, honey and water helped significantly with the sore throat!!
"vinegar and lemon juice gargle cures a sore throat"	Bill	YEA	vinegar and lemon juice gargle cures a sore throat
"Recently I was beginning to develop a sore throat to indicate a cold coming on, so I gargled and sipped on a strong mix of ACV and water and the sore throat was completely gone in a few hours."	Reid from Hong Kong	YEA	Recently I was beginning to develop a sore throat to indicate a cold coming on, so I gargled and sipped on a strong mix of ACV and water and the sore throat was completely gone in a few hours.
"Vinegar & honey helped my sore throat."	Donna from Niagra Falls	YEA	Vinegar & honey helped my sore throat.
"I was suffering from sore throat for a week. My throat hurt and I could barely talk. I took Apple Cider Vinegar 2 times a day and the very next day my throat felt better. I am a believer!"	Anna from Atlanta, GA	YEA	I was suffering from sore throat for a week. My throat hurt and I could barely talk. I took Apple Cider Vinegar 2 times a day and the very next day my throat felt better. I am a believer!
"I have a really sore throat and have just read some of the ideas on your site but do not have access to half the stuff suggested so i have just gargled some plain vinegar which seems to have helped along side a cup of gravy with added salt, i am also sucking strepsals in between though!"	Dan from England	YEA	I have a really sore throat and have just read some of the ideas on your site but do not have access to half the stuff suggested so i have just gargled some plain vinegar which seems to have helped along side a cup of gravy with added salt, i am also sucking strepsals in between though!
"ACV is not generally available in the UK. My guarantee for success is a spoonful of sugar doused in ordinary vinegar, it bites your throat but in the words of the song, it helps the medicine go down."	Brian from Manchester. UK	YEA	ACV is not generally available in the UK. My guarantee for success is a spoonful of sugar doused in ordinary vinegar, it bites your throat but in the words of the song, it helps the medicine go down.
"okay ive been so sick for 3 days that i can barely move, cant eat, and general discomfort. i tried the 3 tbs ACV and 3 tbs of honey in a glass of tea. i hate tea but i would do this anytime my throat hurts. it was instant relief for my throat. now if i could get the rest of my body to stop aching, and these cold sweats to go away i'd be good as gold."	Josh from Akron, Ohio	YEA	okay ive been so sick for 3 days that i can barely move, cant eat, and general discomfort. i tried the 3 tbs ACV and 3 tbs of honey in a glass of tea. i hate tea but i would do this anytime my throat hurts. it was instant relief for my throat. now if i could get the rest of my body to stop aching, and these cold sweats to go away i'd be good as gold.
May from Melbourne, Australia	01/16/2012	YEA	I took AL from malaysia's advice on the apple cider vinegar mixed with ground chillies. I woke up with a terrible sore throat this morning and it has lasted all day - 5 mins ago my voice was croaky and horribly sore. I just gargled Apple Cider Vinegar and chili pepper diluted with water and I feel better already! My voice is almost back to normal! Thank you so much!
